Overall, as a team, we're fairly happy with the progress we have made through the 5 iterations, and the user stories we were able to deliver on. We managed to deliver a plethora of the features we set out to create, including posts, workout schedules, workouts, connections/profiles, as well as non-crud functionality including a recommendations engine and personalized exercise leaderboards. We were not able to accomplish product recommendations (lack of time) or notifications (blocker was needing a paid Apple developer account). 

One thing we did really well throughout was communication between backend and frontend teams, especially around the types of endpoints and application logic that would be needed to allow the mobile application to do what we needed. This prevented features from being unimplemented because of our team not being on the same page. This also enabled the insulation and decoupling we had between our two servers (the backend for all of app logic as well as one separate server for SSO authentication) and the frontend as well, keeping to our original design. One challenge we faced often was ensuring we were working on our individual tasks early on in the iteration and preventing a sprint at the deadlines, which is always tough with a team as large as 6 people. To combat this, we held each other accountable and ensured progress was being made throughout the two weeks, allowing ample time at the end of iterations to find and rectify small bugs.

One other thing we might have done differently would have been spending a little bit more time on frontend design at the outset. Our UI, while we are very happy with it and believe it came out well, was put together just kind of as we went, rather than anything specifically deliberate. If more time had been spent, say, working on Figma designs, the UI might have been even better. The flip side of the coin is that this would have taken time away from developing actual features and functionality, so it certainly isn't a clear-cut decision without costs.

Finally, one struggle we had was the tradeoff between protytping an application quickly with a somewhat quick and dirty approach, and writing more maintainable code for the long run, but maybe having to work slower to allow for this. In general, we leaned towards writing well-documented and modularized code throughout to make the job of debugging and working on each other's code easier. This is definitely a cornerstone, in our opinion, of being successful in building real-world applications, as bugs, issues, and modifications are inevitable, so making life easier for your future self and team is vital. 
